.TH VOIDRIFT 1 "2026-05-21" "Void Drift" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
voidrift \- IRC idle RPG bot (Void Drift game server)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B voidrift
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B voidrift
is a standalone IRC bot implementing the Void Drift idle RPG.
Players register a character, choose a class and alignment, and gain
levels simply by idling in the channel.
Talking, changing nick, parting, quitting, or getting kicked adds
penalty time.
Characters battle each other on level-up, find salvaged artefacts,
join guilds, go on quests, and roam a 500\[tmu]500 grid \[em] all
without lifting a finger.
.PP
Player data is persisted automatically to a JSON file after every
state change.
Guild data is stored in a separate file.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Connection
.TP
.BI \-server " host:port"
IRC server to connect to.
Default: \fBirc.libera.chat:6667\fR.
.TP
.BI \-nick " nick"
Bot IRC nick.
Default: \fBVoidKeeper\fR.
.TP
.BI \-server\-pass " password"
IRC server password (PASS command).
Default: none.
.TP
.BI \-nickserv\-pass " password"
NickServ password; sends \fBIDENTIFY\fR on connect.
Default: none.
.TP
.B \-ssl
Use SSL/TLS for the IRC connection.
Default: false.
.TP
.B \-no\-verify
Skip TLS certificate verification.
Only meaningful with \fB\-ssl\fR.
Use with caution: disables man-in-the-middle protection.
.SS Game
.TP
.BI \-channel " channel"
IRC channel to join and run the game in.
Default: \fB#voidrift\fR.
The bot parts any other channel it is invited to.
.TP
.BI \-data " file"
Path to the player data JSON file (created automatically if absent).
Default: \fBvoidrift.json\fR.
.TP
.BI \-guilds " file"
Path to the guild data JSON file (created automatically if absent).
Default: \fBguilds.json\fR.
.SS Tuning
.TP
.B \-dev
Developer mode: TTL \[di]14, event rates \[mu]10, creep levels capped
at 10, quests require only 1 player at level 0+, existing channel
members are auto-logged in on connect.
Default: false.
.TP
.BI \-rate\-player " multiplier"
Per-player event rate multiplier; scales random events and bot battles.
Default: \fB1.0\fR.
.TP
.BI \-rate\-align " multiplier"
Alignment event rate multiplier; scales good/evil daily events.
Default: \fB1.0\fR.
.TP
.BI \-rate\-server " multiplier"
Server event rate multiplier; scales team/guild battles, quests, and
Hand of God events.
Default: \fB1.0\fR.
.SS Extra
.TP
.BI \-log " file"
Append log output to this file.
Standard output is always active regardless of this flag.
Default: none.
.TP
.B \-version
Print version and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
All flags can also be set via environment variables.
The priority order is: flag > environment variable > compiled-in default.
.TS
l l.
\fBVOIDRIFT_SERVER\fR	IRC server host:port
\fBVOIDRIFT_NICK\fR	Bot nick
\fBVOIDRIFT_SERVER_PASS\fR	IRC server password
\fBVOIDRIFT_NICKSERV_PASS\fR	NickServ password
\fBVOIDRIFT_SSL\fR	Use SSL (true/false)
\fBVOIDRIFT_NO_VERIFY\fR	Skip TLS verification (true/false)
\fBVOIDRIFT_CHANNEL\fR	Game channel
\fBVOIDRIFT_DATA\fR	Player data file
\fBVOIDRIFT_GUILDS\fR	Guild data file
\fBVOIDRIFT_DEV\fR	Dev mode (true/false)
\fBVOIDRIFT_RATE_PLAYER\fR	Per-player event multiplier
\fBVOIDRIFT_RATE_ALIGN\fR	Alignment event multiplier
\fBVOIDRIFT_RATE_SERVER\fR	Server event multiplier
\fBVOIDRIFT_LOG\fR	Log file path
.TE
.PP
For service deployments, variables can be placed in
.IR /etc/voidrift/voidrift.env .
See
.I /etc/voidrift/voidrift.env.example
for a template.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I voidrift.json
Player data (default location; override with \fB\-data\fR).
.TP
.I guilds.json
Guild data (default location; override with \fB\-guilds\fR).
.TP
.I /etc/voidrift/voidrift.env
Optional environment file for service deployments.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run with defaults against Libera Chat:
.PP
.RS
.EX
voidrift \-nick VoidKeeper \-channel "#voidrift"
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run in developer mode with faster events:
.PP
.RS
.EX
voidrift \-dev \-rate\-player 100 \-rate\-server 100
.EE
.RE
.PP
Run with SSL and log to file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
voidrift \-ssl \-nickserv\-pass s3cr3t \-log /var/log/voidrift/voidrift.log
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR drifter (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Costin Stroie <costinstroie@eridu.eu.org>
.PP
Source code: https://github.com/cstroie/voidrift
